---
title: Office of Field Operations
url: https://www.bia.gov/bia/ofo
date: '2023-10-26'
author: Humphreys, Victoria L
feed_url: https://bia.gov/rss.xml
---
Office of Field Operations Our Mission The Office of Field Operations supports the Director, Bureau of Indian Affairs in the development, management and execution of bureau programs designed to enhance customer experience and service delivery for American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Tribes. This is achieved by supporting BIA's 12 Regional Offices that oversee the 86 agencies and and field offices located throughout Indian Country. Humphreys, Vic… Thu, 10/26/2023 - 19:42 Services We Provide Top Tribal Leaders Directory Trust Land Acquisition (Fee to Trust) Indian Child Welfare Act Contact Us Contact Us Office of Field Operations 1011 Indian School Rd NW Suite 254 Albuquerque, NM 87104 Open 8:30 a.m.–4:30 p.m., Monday–Friday. Organization Type Business Function Office Who We Serve The Office of Field Operations provides organizational direction and coordination to ensure programs and services administered at regional offices are in accordance with the mission, policies, and strategic goals that govern the Bureau. Its primary objective is to develop and execute standards policies, administer, review and evaluate the achievements of all field achievements, and coordinate BIA activities with other Offices within BIA and other federal entities. The Office also coordinates with the Offices of Indian Services and Trust Services to provide support and standard implementation guidance on the wide range of activities involving both offices. Key Information Tribal Membership Open Data Resources Policies, Forms, Consultations Financial Resources Tribal Membership The referenced media source is missing and needs to be re-embedded. Research Ancestry Tracing Cherokee Indian Ancestry Browse Data By Category Climate Resilience Annual Awards BIL Funded Projects Indian Affairs Manual Handbooks Online Forms Consultation Schedule Interior Budget In Briefs Tribal-Interior Budget Council (TIBC) Budget Formulation Greenbooks About The Office of Field Operations staff members work on a wide range of issues, including providing technical assistance, conducting outreach, facilitating communication between tribal governments and federal agencies, and ensuring Bureau policies and initiatives are effectively carried out at the local level. The Deputy Bureau Director of the Office of Field Operations within the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) is responsible for assisting the Bureau Director in managing and overseeing field operations related to Indian affairs and tribal relations. This role involves a range of duties, including: Strategic Planning: Collaborating with the Bureau Director to develop and implement strategic plans and policies concerning Indian affairs and tribal programs. Operations Management: Overseeing day-to-day operations of the Office of Field Operations, ensuring efficient and effective delivery of services and programs to tribes and Native American communities. Policy Development: Contributing to the formulation of policies, regulations, and guidelines related to tribal governance, land and natural resource management, education, social services, and economic development. Interagency Coordination: Collaborating with other federal agencies, tribal governments, and stakeholders to coordinate and align efforts that impact Native American communities. Budget and Resource Management: Assisting in the management of budgets, grants, and resources allocated for field operations, ensuring proper allocation and utilization. Advocacy and Liaison: Acting as a liaison and advocate for Native American tribes and communities, representing the Bureau of Indian Affairs in meetings, conferences, and negotiations. Staff Supervision and Leadership: Providing guidance, leadership, and supervision to staff within the Office of Field Operations, fostering a productive and supportive work environment. Related Organizations Organization Chart PDF BIA Org Chart Explore Careers More Resources Indian Preference & How to Apply Law Enforcement Careers Wildland Fire Management Careers Internships & Youth Development BIA-BIE Indian Youth Police Academy Youth Programs Tribal College Universities
