---
title: Indian Affairs delivers $20 million in emergency funding for Alaska Native
  villages
url: https://www.bia.gov/news/indian-affairs-delivers-20-million-in-emergency-funding-alaska-native-villages
date: '2026-05-06'
author: Humphreys, Victoria L
feed_url: https://bia.gov/rss.xml
---
Indian Affairs delivers $20 million in emergency funding for Alaska Native villages Press Release Humphreys, Vic… Wed, 05/06/2026 - 02:13 Image Contact Us Contact Us Indian Affairs - Office of Public Affairs 1849 C Street NW, MS-4660 MIB Washington, DC 20240 Open 8:30 a.m.–4:30 p.m., Monday–Friday. Start and End Date 05 End Date Tue, 05/05/2026 - 17:01 Time Zone Eastern (ET) The Department of the Interior’s Indian Affairs today announced $4 million in emergency funding is being distributed to address severe shortages of heating fuel, diesel, gasoline, firewood, and potable water across 16 native communities in Alaska in response to severe winter weather delaying or preventing delivery of these essential supplies. “Our team acted swiftly to allocate $4 million in emergency funding that will enable the immediate distribution of more than 77,000 gallons of heating fuel, potable water supplies, and emergency firewood, all vital to safeguarding community well-being,” said Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs Billy Kirkland , who is in Alaska this week to meet with tribal leaders. This assistance was necessitated by unique challenges faced by affected communities, including delayed spring barge deliveries, restricted water systems, and extreme winter conditions that hinder local procurement efforts. Villages receiving supplies are Akiak, Ambler, Beaver, Buckland, Chefornak, Gambell, Goodnews Bay, Kiana, Kipnuk, Koyuk, Kongiganak, Kwigillingok, Newtok, Selawik, Shaktoolik and Shungnak. Indian Affairs recognizes the strong leadership and advocacy demonstrated by tribal officials. Their collaboration has been essential in identifying urgent needs and facilitating rapid response. Interior encourages continued dialogue and partnership as we work together to protect lives and support recovery efforts. Additionally, Interior is awarding $16 million in funding to support urgent infrastructure and resilience needs in the Native Village of Chefornak, an Alaska Native community facing severe erosion, permafrost loss, and failing infrastructure. This investment will help the community relocate at ‑ risk homes, address unsafe structures, restore damaged wetlands, and advance reconstruction of its essential barge landing, which is critical for fuel and freight deliveries. Chefornak’s plan directly aligns with President Trump’s January 2025 Executive Order, Unleashing Alaska’s Extraordinary Resource Potential , which calls for modernizing rural infrastructure, strengthening supply chains, and supporting locally led resilience projects. #### Would you like to route to a direct link? No
